so this stream is going to be kind of
interesting because i think that
for those of you that are like
relatively familiar with our work and
have questions about ayurveda i think
it's going to be fantastic
and for those of you who don't really
know too much about ayurveda you may be
a little bit lost
so um you know one of the challenges
that we have is that we'll
teach a little bit about ayurveda but
ayurveda is like it's a
big system right so it's a system that's
been developed for thousands of years
if you want to understand ayurveda from
start to finish it's like a five-year
education like full-time medical
education and that's just
the end of school right so then you
start to practice and you learn a lot
about nuances and things like that
so we introduce ayurveda um you know in
a basic way and there's like a lot more
information about it in dr k's guide
but i thought what we would do today is
actually like
explain some of the more detailed or
nuanced things
because a lot of the way that i talk
about ayurveda is very simplified
and may also be incorrect to be blunt
because
i'm not actually a trained ayurvedic
physician i'm someone who
started studying ayurveda at the age of
21 studied it sort of like informally
and then you know i've studied it for a
long time but i'm essentially an amateur
the interesting the cool thing about
being an amateur is that there's a lot
of traditional
there's a lot of stuff in ayurveda that
has become like shaped
over time um and they've actually
like lost sight of like a lot of it so
the biggest example of this is like
psychiatry and mental health
so if you look at ayurveda there's to my
knowledge really only one ayurvedic
hospital
in india anyway and arguably the world
that specializes in psychiatry i've only
been able to find one there may be more
um so so it's kind of interesting
because like even if you look at some of
the old texts on ayurveda
that you know two of the major texts on
ayurveda
will sort of acknowledge that when they
were written there were like
ayurvedic psychiatrists and that if you
want to learn
about that branch you should read this
third dude's text
the challenge is that it appears that
that third dude's
text has been sort of like lost over
time
so i think that there's a lot of room
for development
of ayurvedic perspectives on mental
health
and there's another kind of important
reason why the ayurvedic perspective on
mental health is like a little bit
lacking
is that mental health and like the way
that the mind work
works was actually more traditionally
like a part of yoga
as opposed to the system of medicine so
this is kind of like thinking about you
know we have psychology
and we have psychiatry and psychology is
like
a basic science uh that
studies the mind and psychiatry is a
branch of medicine right so it's about
the application
and pathology of the mind and so in that
same way
in the eastern system you had the
ayurvedic folks who were medical
professionals
and then you had the yogis who were like
sort of the basic science here's how the
mind works
so a lot of what we would call ayurvedic
psychiatry is actually
found in like yogic texts
so this is kind of all a roundabout way
of saying
you know i think that what i'm talking
about has some merit and at the same
time
you know i'm i'm not actually like
formally trained in it
so you got to take it with a grain of
salt okay
so let's kind of start off with this so
we saw
so our structure today is going to be
we're going to look at a couple of
reddit posts and i love these reddit
posts because
you know i think they speak to
deficiencies
in what we've explained so far so like
sometimes when we'll teach about art
because i do simplify things there's
like a lot of people who are like
wait but there's stuff missing here and
you're absolutely right
so there's absolute deficiencies in what
we've shared with you there may even be
deficiencies in my learning i'm not sure
which one
is you know more accurate but so today
what we're going to do is like do a
deeper dive into like
a couple of subtle concepts around
ayurvedic doshas
and more importantly we're going to
explain like doshik combinations
okay and and the way that we're going to
kind of explain this stuff
is going to be like actually more from
like a corporate consulting standpoint
so one of the things that i do is
corporate consulting
so i'll go to a company and i'll teach
them about ayurveda because the basic
idea
that i'll share with them is that you
know not all people are the same
and if you look at western psychology
like western psychology i know it sounds
kind of weird
but sort of has the assumption that all
people are the same
so if you look at like psychiatry they
will diagnose a person with depression
and the depression is a disease that is
independent of the person
right if you look at like something like
cancer like cancer is an
independent process that can affect
people
but is not intertwined with the person
and so we've taken that medical aspect
which also has to do with like you know
was informed like our system of
science and medicine was heavily
informed by things like um
you know microbiology where there's like
an agent that causes an
infection and the agent is independent
of the person
and we took that idea of like disease is
an
independent process uh that we found in
western medici
like sorry physical medicine and we also
applied that paradigm to psychology and
psychiatry
where we said anxiety is an independent
process
you are you and the anxiety is over here
and the anxiety affects you
the two are not actually intertwined so
ayurveda is a little bit different and
ayurveda says that you can't have a
disease
outside of a person that there are
specific
aspects of your dorsi balance which will
affect the way that the disease
manifests within you
and there's some really interesting
support for this scientific hypothesis i
mean this ayurvedic hypothesis
so for example if you look at like the
way that we diagnose depression they're
essentially three types of depression
and like this is like according to
western science okay
there is an anxious depression which is
like
depression that's characterized by
insomnia
restlessness fidgeting rumination
a lot of thoughts and then there's a
neuro-vegetative depression which is
characterized by
hypersomnia weight gain low energy
difficulty moving and like thoughts that
sort of
aren't all over the place but focus on
one thing in sort of a sluggish
and rigid way and it's kind of weird
because literally if you look at the
diagnostic criteria for
depression it can include weight loss
or weight gain hypersomnia
or insomnia and not moving a whole lot
or moving too much and if you just kind
of think about it logically like
those sound like opposite ends of
manifestations right like
it's not like you get you know back pain
and back pleasure
as part of rheumatoid arthritis it's not
like you get
you know fever and hypothermia is part
of an infection
you know usually it's like it's kind of
bizarre but like two polar opposites are
not the same disease
like it's kind of like so simple but
that's the way that our western medicine
has evolved
and there's a third lesser known type of
depression
which is called depression with anger
attacks so these are people that like
experience depression but they their
primary manifestation is actually
like irritability and like anger so they
don't necessarily feel
sad but what they do is feel like
incredible incredible amounts of
frustration
and it's also really interesting because
if you look at pediatric presentations
and adolescent presentations of
depression
it appears that in pediatric populations
depression doesn't manifest as
sadness it manifests as moodiness and
irritability
so it's kind of interesting because even
in western science we're sort of
figuring out okay there are these three
types of depressions but the really
fascinating thing is ayurveda actually
says that if you take an
independent disease process and you plug
it into a person
you will manifest in three different
ways depending on what the person's
contribution is okay so when i go to a
corporation i'll say like hey
i can teach your staff to be healthier
and like
work with each other more harmoniously
and the way that i can teach all that is
by teaching you about ayurveda because
it'll help you understand
your temperament and once you understand
your temperament the way that your mot
your individual mind functions it will
become clear
why there is workplace conflict because
you'll have a vata who doesn't like
structure and likes to innovate
and likes to you know explore and you'll
have a kapha who's like
no no no we need like structure like we
have processes for a reason
we are organized for a reason like like
when you stick to the processes when you
get the best
result and the vata is like let's go
let's figure it out we'll figure it out
don't worry man like why are you so
stuck up
bro like what's going on and the kapha
is like oh my god
okay so you'll get a lot of like a
workplace conflict because of
uh differences so what we're gonna do
is is
yeah so anyone can be a bully so we're
gonna do is actually start
with um taking a look at um a couple of
posts
okay and then what we're going to do is
explain a little bit more about like how
to approach
vata pitta and kapha from sort of like a
workplace setting
um and then what we'll do is like think
a little bit about like workplace
temperaments and job roles
as they relate to combinations because
people will ask like if i'm a vata kafa
then what do i do and so we'll sort of
look at different job roles in which
those kinds of people
tend to operate well and then lastly
we'll kind of explore explore a couple
of nuances of doshas
and then we'll have a meditation
technique which is sort of related to
ayurveda towards the end okay um so one
last thing about science okay for a
second
so i gotta say this so at the beginning
of what i'm gonna explain to you guys
it is very scientifically valid the
further we go
in today's teaching the more we're gonna
leave science behind
okay so it's we're gonna start like very
scientifically grounded and i'll
show you all a couple of papers which
i've shown before and then like the more
that we get towards the corporate
consulting side i want you all to
understand there have not been
studies about the specificity of what
i'm teaching
it's anecdotally very useful people love
it people get better i've certainly
loved it i think there is science there
but the studies have not reached that
point right we're at the very
basic level of studying ayurveda
scientifically and it's been incredibly
fascinating
but the closer we get to application the
more we're going to leave the solid
foundation of evidence and sort of
extrapolate from the evidence to come up
with theories and conclusions
but a lot of the stuff that i'm gonna
teach y'all towards the end some of it
has been actually verified through
some personality assessments and things
like that but
really we're gonna like leave the
evidence behind and it's gonna be a lot
more like clinically focused
okay so um you know just i
want to just toss out that disclaimer
okay questions
yeah so one of the things that we try to
do so i want you all to understand this
okay about leaving science behind
so i'm a clinician so i know it sounds
kind of weird but most of clinical
medicine is not scientific
and it sounds kind of weird but you know
we have scientific trials right so we'll
have trials that tell us okay this
antidepressant you should use first this
antidepressant you should use next this
antidepressant you should use third
and when an actual human being comes
into my office
there's a protocol of the standard of
like
what is you know on average the most
effective
but what i want y'all to realize is that
like on average
what may be the most effective is not
very effective for like 40
of the population right so the goal of
clinical medicine
is to take a scientific foundation which
is very well grounded
and it to an individual case
and if we want to be really precise
about it there are no randomized
controlled trials
about you there is not a single
randomized controlled trial
that looks at what antidepressant will
be effective
in you right i know it sounds kind of
weird all of the trials are
what's effective on average but if you
think about where you are
and where average is there can be a big
gap there right like
you are a very different person from the
average person
each of us has like a different height
and you may be above average or below
average
the other way to kind of think about it
is if i'm a fashion consultant
i can look at data and i can say like
okay on average what do people wear
okay what's the average size people are
a medium what's the average color
okay most people wear like blue what's
the average of what people wear okay
people where
are wearing this nowadays based on
fashion trends and all of those averages
may not apply to you if you're
4 foot 11 or 7 foot right like we we
want to
cater to the individual and use a
foundation
of what science tells us okay
okay all right so last point is i'm
hearing a lot of people you know i saw
one question that's like i'm becoming
more vat that what do i do about it
so unfortunately today the focus is not
going to be what
to do about your vata the focus today is
going to be
all of the people who are asking what
kind of dosha
am i and how can i understand my dosha
there's going to be a little bit less on
the intervention side because what we
really want to focus on
is the nuance of like like you know dual
doshik people
and trying to understand that okay so
first we're it's a little bit more of a
diagnostic
and explanatory as opposed to like this
is what you do about it
um so i apologize for that but that's
sort of why we have
anyway just occurred yeah i can't teach
everything all at once okay
so we're gonna do things in chunks all
right so let's get started
you all okay with this chat is this good
ah what's the difference between about
then adhd okay so save all your
questions
for the end okay all right
okay so number one your dosha is not
your pokemon type
look i get it you found a new framework
you're very excited about it you heard
about a new structure for understanding
the self and your immediate impulse
is something like as long as i can
figure this out the best way to harness
my coffee strengths and shore up my
the corresponding weaknesses i'll be
able to solve my problems
and maybe you will whatever works works
and i'm not here to tell you that you
need to abandon the idea
for the sake of some sort of immortal
truth if categorizing yourself is
a bit the somehow ameliorates your
issues
there but for the grace of god go i have
fun
what i'm trying to make clear is that
dosha the dosha concept
is not some rigorous definition of
individual character
it is like stated above a framework for
introspection
like many other classifications of human
personality types
it's primarily useful as a tool to get
the individual to look inward and
examine pathways
that may not be obvious at first glance
understanding your dorsa
whatever that may mean is not a solution
in its in and of itself
it's only a tool to enhance
self-exploration
more importantly it's a tool that is
only relevant to the person using it
your classification is of minimal
importance to the people around you
it's an entirely personal concept as a
result the people
asking for advice on how to approach a
situation as
insert dosha type here are fundamentally
misguided because this whole framework
isn't going to provide you a solution
there's all sorts of solutions to all
sorts of problems and trying to peg an
individualized solution to a dosha type
as though you're figuring out the best
weaknesses to exploit
in a pokemon battle is completely
orthogonal to what you actually need
framing your personal issues purely
within the dosha framework is going to
lead you astray because
introspection doesn't solve problems it
helps you solve problems more
effectively
the resolution is ultimately on you as
an individual the framework can't step
into your place
okay now this is a wonderful post i
uploaded it right
loved the post it's a fantastic post
and unfortunately
there are huge swaths of it that are
kind of wrong
okay so let's take a look at this so
this person's argument is that there are
a lot of
systems of let's look at this okay so
like many other classifications of human
personality types it's primarily useful
tool
to get the individual to look inward and
examine pathways that are not
that may not be obvious at a first
glance so this person is correct
in in some of these fundamentals okay so
and like woefully incorrect in others so
let's try to understand
what's correct about this and sort of
what isn't or my opinion on what isn't
so the first is okay we've got a lot of
different personality types right like
what
hogwarts house are you you know what is
what's your myers-briggs type
um what's your balance on the five
factor model
and it's it's good because even
astrology right so like
astrology can be useful as a framework
for introspection
so this person is kind of coming from
the stance that personality analyses
are useful as frameworks for
introspection
you can use it to guide your internal
journey
you know use as a tool to self to
enhance self-exploration
and that that tool is only relevant to
the person using it right so like if i'm
big into astrology
and like it i'm like oh my god i'm such
a libra i'm such a libra like
no one else really cares whether i'm a
libra or not i can still use libra to
help understand
my own internal kind of perspective
um and and that can be beneficial to me
and i can still gain value out of it
and that's sort of that's that's
absolutely true like this argument is
like theoretically like spot on right
so we even know from psychological
research that
astrology is essentially a projective
test
so in psychology there are certain tests
like the rorschach or inkblot test is
the best example of this
that's a projective test and so the
value isn't
you know that something is objectively
correct but that we can
use particular things to help people
understand
and serve as frameworks for
introspection
and that if you provide someone with a
framework of introspection the framework
doesn't need to be objectively correct
the value is in the introspection okay
that's what this person's
cases and he's absolutely correct that
in most situations a personality
analysis this happens to be true
as it turns out ayurveda is actually a
little bit different
and the main reason for that is that
ayurveda is not
just a system of introspection it's
something that
is correlated to your genomics right so
people have done studies
which show that your doshik balance is
not just something that you use for
introspection
but can actually be genetically
identified so if we look at
the spectrum of human beings we realize
that some people
are more prone to experiencing anxiety
and some people are more prone to ulcers
and some people
are more prone to anger so if we look at
human beings and we do a scientific
study and we stress
a hundred people out 33 of those people
will become
anxious as a response to the stress 33
of those people will become angry and
irritable with response to those stress
and 33 people will become isolated and
depressed with a response to the stress
now those numbers i actually don't know
if those are true or not but the point
is that we can make very
real scientific observations about
variances within the human population
and as we study ayurveda what we
discover
is that these um all of these variations
which we can detect with people
are actually like correlated to their
genome
right we can actually look at these
people who all get anxious
we can look at their genome and see oh
wow
all of the people who are prone to
anxiety
actually share common genes let me show
you guys
this okay so here's just an example of
this
so like here you know you can say that
okay so like there are three types of
people you can use this as a frame
uh you know an interest a framework for
introspective
introspection but what's really
interesting is that if you actually look
at like
um you know papers that
look at science what you discover is
that
three basic genocycle somatotypes or
birth constitutions
have different nuclear receptors which
are expected to regulate
the expression of specific genes thereby
controlling embryonic development
adult homeostasis and human metabolism
of the human organism in a profound way
this is not a framework for
introspection my friend
this is something that has been
scientifically shown to be
baked into genes okay so this is why i
emphasize ayurveda
over astrology or so because i've
studied a lot of stuff
okay guys i've studied like vedic
astrology
not so much western astrology i learned
how to read tarot cards
i'm an energy healer i don't talk about
any of that crap
i'm also somewhat familiar with
myers-briggs but i steer it away from
myers-briggs
the reason i steered away from
myers-briggs is because when i looked
for evidence for it
what i found is that there's the
myers-briggs institute
which publishes a lot of evidence but
there is very little
independent verification of the
myers-briggs model
which i have been able to find okay
so like ayurvedic genomics establishing
a genetic basis for mind-body typologies
right so like this is kind of
interesting so there's a significant
correlation between
hla type and prakriti that's really
fascinating
so hla types are sort of individual
receptors
on some of our immunes on our cells
which immune cells recognize and stuff
like that
but it actually that hla types so these
are
things that are sort of like blood
groups right that they actually
correlate with vata pitta and kapha
so it's sort of fascinating because i do
think that where i disagree with this
person
is that ayurveda is simply a framework
for introspection
now some of the ways that we talk about
it we use it as framework
for introspection so in that sense this
person is absolutely correct
because when i tell you guys hey this is
what avata is this is what a pitta is
this is what a kapha is
i'm not doing genetic analysis on each
and every one of you and sort of
you know determining your ayurvedic type
so
in this sense like we sort of you know
we do use it like a pokemon type right
like
the way that i explain ayurveda is
from a sort of like take a personality
test and it's what you identify with
so in that sense our application of
understanding ayurvedic doshas are sort
of a framework of for introspection
which is exactly what this person is
saying and at the same time
i want everyone to understand that
ayurveda is not just a framework
for introspection the reason that we
that's the way we're using it
absolutely but there is actually
overwhelming evidence that ayurveda is
not
like the other systems of personality
because i don't know of
any systems of personality that have
done this much correlation to like
genetics and sort of figuring out okay
this personality type
actually is developed due to a
combination of genetics
gene expression embryonic environment
like that is absolutely wild
chat but there is a huge difference
in my experience between ayurveda and
other systems of personality analysis
so even if you look at things like the
five factor model which are also systems
of personality
analysis that have been very well
validated i don't know i haven't really
looked at this because i'm not an expert
in five factor research because you
can't be an expert in everything
unfortunately
but i don't know what degree of genetic
correlation has been done with five
factor research and sort of like looking
at people's genes
so this is kind of a it's a it's a
fantastic post and i think the person's
um you know like very correct about a
lot of things
but i i do think that this is where
actually in my experience this is not
the case
so more importantly it's a tool that is
only relevant to the person using it
and so we'll talk about this a little
bit down the line but like literally
i'll do
consulting for corporations where it's
not
only relevant to the person using it but
when everyone in your team
understands everyone's ayurvedic dosha
it becomes very relevant and this will
become a little bit more clear once we
get to
the framework that i'm going to share
with you guys today but understanding
that you're avata
and understanding that someone else is a
guffa will help you
change the way that your mind or realize
which way your mind is defaulting to
thinking
and acknowledge someone else's default
thought and it actually
really really helps with like conflict
resolution and team harmony
once you realize what your pokemon type
is
which the person is fair to say that we
don't really have good scientific
ways of connecting the genetics to the
pokemon type
so we are sort of basically determining
a pokemon type
but i i have kind of two important
caveats which is one is that like
it's not just a framework for
introspection that's how we're using it
in these cases
absolutely and it has all of the
shortcomings of that but it does appear
that your ayurvedic dosha
actually correlates with genetics and
other kinds of things which were you
know i can go into more detail but
you know even for example like some of
my uh ayurvedic colleagues in india
have been able to predict complications
of kovid
based on the dosha of of the patient so
covid is one thing right
but whether this person uh needs icu
stuff
or they have cognitive stuff or they
have gi symptoms from covid
appears to correlate with their
ayurvedic dosha which is incredibly
fascinating
right so unfortunately studies haven't
really been published
on this yet we'll see if they ever kind
of get published um
but it does appear that like you know
physicians are able to sort of predict
okay does this person need to watch out
for stroke does this person need to
watch out for gi complications
cognitive complications or respiratory
complications
because covid can cause all kinds of
random crap in random people
but if you really think about it you
know i know it sounds kind of weird but
there's absolutely biology and science
that
leads to a complication of covid it's
not random it's not truly random right
we just don't have an understanding of
biology that's that's strong enough
to where we can predict which kinds of
complications are going to happen
happen with which people in western
medicine so it's really fascinating
okay so um so this is also where you
know
uh you know the kind of says that
they're fundamentally misguided because
this whole framework isn't going to
provide you with a solution
and that's where i'd say like you know
that's not something so i'm going to say
that i disagree but this is where
neither i am right nor this person is
right you know to really
understand whether this framework will
provide you with a solution or not is
going to require data
right so what really the way that we
need to answer this question
is we take you know a hundred let's take
200 people
in a workplace setting and um and we're
we're not really thinking about doing
this study yet but you know i have
multiple corporate clients and
have some connections at academic
institutions and stuff like that so
this study may arise within the next
couple of years
and what we're going to do is is teach
100 people about their dosha
and we're going to have some kind of
control group where you know we're not
going to teach people about their dosha
and then the interesting thing is that
we can actually measure
whether teaching people about their
dosha actually leads to measurable
effects right so it's not about my
opinion or this person's opinion
this is absolutely a situation where
like over time
i think the goal is going to be to
actually measure and test some of these
hypotheses
because this statement more importantly
it's it's a it's a tool that is only
relevant to the person
using it that's a fair opinion i have my
fair opinion i'm not saying i mean i
believe i'm right and i believe this
person is incorrect
but i can't really say that right the
real money is going to be
when we actually have an ayurvedic
intervention
and whether we can actually measure some
degree of change
okay um so
but generally speaking i think that this
person's sentiment is absolutely correct
that generally speaking person systems
of personality analysis
are useful as frameworks for
introspection and that
the goal is to introspect learn
something about yourself
and then use that to solve problems more
effectively like i think that's
absolutely a wonderful and reasonable
logical change
and at the same time i do believe that
ayurveda
has scientific evidence which elevates
it
beyond just the system of framework for
introspection
and the caveat to that is that what i'm
going to teach you all today
is absolutely closer to a framework of
for introspection than it is
uh you know like genetically verified
right because we're going to apply this
extrapolate this more as a framework for
introspection
okay great fantastic post
love it and by the way um
you know i really hope that so i want
y'all to understand this
i love this post so much because
our subreddit is not a place for dr k to
be right
our subreddit is absolutely a place for
anyone to be right and anyone to be
wrong so someone i i sometimes post on
the subreddit
and someone like realized that like i
my response was dr k and they're like
hey man you should have flair so that
people know when you're talking
and i'm like no bro i really should not
right so that what's really great about
that is that
i rarely have the top comment on
responses to the subreddit which is
absolutely the way that it's supposed to
be
right we this is not a post reddit of dr
k is right and everyone needs to know
when dr k
opens his mouth i have a platform where
i get to be right and everyone gets to
listen to what i say
the point of the subreddit i know it's
shocking chat uh the point of the
subreddit is that there are people
out there who have better and more
impactful responses
than i do and that's why the subreddit
exists
it's a space for people to share awesome
opinions like this
right and so it's a space where you guys
can support each other you can challenge
each other
and like it's not like my word is like
the end-all
i'm allowed to disagree with you and
there's sort of like an inherent power
dynamic right because dr k is saying
you're wrong
but like i really want to emphasize that
this is exactly the kind of discussion
we need because i may not like i'm not
the arbiter of truth chat
like i know a lot but i'm not the
arbiter of truth and what i really love
about the subreddit is that a lot of
people post
right a lot of people discuss a lot of
people help each other out
and like they actually do a better job
of it than i do which is like exactly
what it's there for right we're
we're a community that fosters like you
know growth of each and every individual
in the community
we're not actually like a dr k says it
so it must be true community at least i
don't think so
we joke about memeing about being a cult
but i think it's these meta-level
discussions that keep us from becoming a
call
so it's fantastic love the post really
appreciate this kind of discussion
okay oh no i don't have water
okay why don't you guys start reading
this and i'm gonna go grab water
so hgg old heads will remember the
classic lectures on the vedic model of
the mind
vata pitta and kapha three doshas okay
so the first thing to understand is the
vedic model of the mind is not ayurveda
those are different things okay
but we'll get to that just a
clarification
um so vata being like wind the mind
constantly bouncing around between
whatever grabs its attention
if a vat that plants 20 20 trees they
may succeed at getting all of them to
blossom
but struggle to give anyone enough
attention to flourish
pitha being like fire burning intensely
on whatever it's
it it's focused they plant one tree give
it a constant attention
and care until they see the fruit and
then plant their next tree
guffa being like earth moving slowly but
gradually building
into something great they might only
ever plant one tree but over many years
cultivate it
into something truly magnificent i've
tried to analyze
myself using this framework and i think
i'm a pretty strong vata kapha hybrid
which i don't believe dr k has ever
talked about
i've always learned new things very
quickly and on a day-to-day basis i'm
constantly bouncing around
obsessing about whatever grabs my
attention however over the long term i'm
very slow moving resistant to change and
very attached to the trees i've planted
i find myself always coming back to the
same handful of things
improving them at at them in a short
burst of time
moving on to something else and then
weeks or months later when the wind
pulls me back sad and disappointed at
how i've neglected it
this fuels the obsession once again with
much of the
time spent playing catch up only to lose
interest
once i get a feeling of okay i think
i've made up for the neglect
but what about my other trees i'm now
hesitant to ever commit to something
entirely new paralyzed by the anxiety of
letting my oldest trees
wither and die caught in an endless
cycle of trying to maintain what i have
yet feeling like nothing i do will ever
reach its full potential
this affects my relationships my hobbies
my responsibilities and my job
what should i do to play into my
strengths and mitigate my weaknesses
when there are so many
when they are so naturally in conflict
beautiful
uh beautiful post okay
now the lecture
is about to begin chat
okay so the first problem
is that when i teach ayurveda i tend to
teach it
as if vatas and kaphas are opposites
right if we think about wind and earth
we sort of think about them as opposites
but the truth is that vata and kapha are
not opposites they're actually like
independent
okay and the idea that they are
opposites
um comes from sort of essentially like a
simplification of the doshas
so what we're gonna do is explain
in more detail how to understand your
doshas okay
so for people who are new let's start
with the basics
okay so ayurveda is a system of medicine
that's about 5000 years old
that posits that are not all people are
the same
and that each person has an elemental
balance
of three types vata pitta
and kapha so vata is like the wind
bit is like fire and kapha is like earth
okay i know i said five but let's focus
on these three that's another
simplification
so what they sort of noticed is that
some people are like the wind their mind
is very dynamic
they learn things very easily they're
quick studies but they also forget
things very easily kind of like the wind
they blow really hard in one direction
and can die down kind of randomly and
then they can blow really hard in
another direction
a lot of people sort of identify with
vata especially because our society
right now is very vatagenic so if you
look at things like notifications and
like the pace of society
our minds are becoming more dynamic you
have to deal with more stimuli and it's
like becoming like
you know stimulus overload so all of our
society
makes people more vata bitters are like
fire they're organized they're focused
they discriminate which means they tease
apart things
they try to really like understand
processes
and they tend to be like ambitious and
driven and focused
our society currently rewards pittas
so if you think about school and you
think about like promotions and things
like that
so i saw a statistic that if you want to
earn the highest salary
you should move jobs every two years
that generally speaking if you stay at
one company for a prolonged period of
time
your promotion schedule is going to be
slower than if you hop around
if you hop around too quickly like
avatar would
you won't earn as much and if you stay
around
too long like a kapha would you won't
earn as much so
our society tends to be like very like
bit the rewarding
right so we we tend to emphasize and
reward people who are like ambitious
driven focused those are the things that
we believe lead to success
and then you have the kapha types which
are stable resilient
arguably slow so they're like the earth
resistant to change hard to move
but can be very very dedicated to one
thing
so it's really nice to be in a
relationship with a kapha person because
the kapha person
generally speaking will be able to like
tolerate a lot of your stuff
it can be very difficult to be a coffee
person because often times you'll stay
in situations
longer than you should because of your
high ability of tolerance
right so the video gaming analogy that i
use for kaphas is like
if i'm sitting in a pool of acid and i'm
avata i get out of it really really
quickly because
i have a low hp pool and if you're a
kapha you can just kind of tank that
damage for a while
it's like not a big deal and even though
you should leave there's not a whole lot
of like pressure for you to leave
because your ability to
withstand is pretty high okay
so quick uh you know take on doshas
so what we tend to have is we've got
vatas
so the way that it works and this is
determined by our genetics
is that we have levels of vata pittan
kapha so let's say here's the baseline
and any human being based on their
genetics will have
you know avata that's up here maybe
a pitta that's down here and then maybe
a kapha that's like
over here okay so these are our natural
levels that are genetically determined
we've seen good evidence
evidence of that and then what happens
so this is called our prakruti
and then what happens is that based on
our environment based on our diet based
on other kinds of influential things
our levels can change and that's called
our vikrti
so let's say that my vata level is here
i
i force myself to go to a lot of like
entrepreneurship
and ambition and networking events so my
pitta is going to be kind of baseline
and um since i'm sort of in a very
technological society and i don't take
care of myself well
my kapha is going to actually be reduced
okay
so this is called vikrti and vikruti is
your current balance
of your doshik elements that is can be
altered
okay so remember that and then what
happens is if we kind of look at it like
let's say this is the threshold
for illness so
if your vikruti crosses this barrier
then you will manifest with illness if
your
vikruti crosses this barrier you will
manifest this illness
so someone earlier was asking about adhd
so i have a very active and dynamic mind
and if i'm not careful it gets to the
point where like my
active and dynamic mind if i cross this
threshold with
which it's very easy for me to do i end
up with
like being so vata that it actually
negatively
impacts my life so like it's nice like i
can juggle five balls but if my
vata like elevates too much and then i'm
juggling ten balls then i start dropping
them left and right
okay so that is an example of
uh prakruti which is your genetic basis
and vikruti which can be changed over
time
okay so this is an overview of vata
so like for example vata elevations can
result
in adhd or anxiety
right when you cross the bit the
threshold
you're going to get angry and you're
going to snap at people and when you
cross the cuff of threshold you're going
to be depressed
okay now the other interesting thing is
let's take a look at depression for
example
all right so let's say that here's our
vata pitta kafa
and so let's say that i have an
avata person a pit the person
and a kapha person okay
and then in each of these three people
if if their kapha
elevates over here then i'll get an
anxious depression if this person's
kapha elevates to over here
then i'll get depression with anger
attacks and if this person's kapha
elevates to over here which remember we
don't need a whole lot of
then this is neuro-vegetative depression
do you guys see how that works
so depression is a kapha imbalance but
depending on what your
prakruti is it will manifest in a
different way and the really interesting
thing is that there's decent science to
support this so like we know there are
three kinds of
um you know depressions and we don't we
haven't quite done the study i actually
published a paper about this about
how they huh what
what is this why are you talking about
me
hack
weird oh
we deleted it all what is happening
okay let's just start from the top okay
so um so essentially like depression can
happen in any um
uh in any kind of person and depending
on what kind of person they have
it'll manifest in a different way okay
so now what we're gonna do so that's
just kind of basics of
ayurveda okay so now what we're going to
do is we're going to talk about the
hybrids
and the way that we're going to high uh
or talk about the hybrids
is we're going to actually refer to like
work related stuff and this is where
we're definitely going to go more
towards the framework of introspection
there's less science to support this so
there's a ton of science to support the
genetic stuff
there's a decent amount of science to
support the clinical stuff
and now we're really getting into the
place where there's very little signs
okay
so i'd say about vatas is that they're
innovators
but those are organizers
and kaphas are like structure oriented
okay so like what avata does is just
puts random things out there
what a bit that does is take these
random things and like organize them
into structure
okay so like we're going to organize
this and what akapha is going to do is
start off from the get-go by making
things nice
and structured so like i know it sounds
kind of weird but like
this may sound like the same thing but
it's fundamentally different like
yeah i know it sounds kind of weird but
it just is and we'll we'll explain that
later okay
so let's kind of look at um some
combinations now okay
so if i have a vata bit the person so
let's start with a straight vata
so these people are innovators so they
come up with ideas
but generally speaking can't see them to
fruition
because they sort of lack an organizing
component or structural component
so like avata can be like a visionary
okay so like sometimes what what you'll
have like sometimes actually ceos can be
vata
um but generally if they're if they need
if they're vata so this is the kind of
corporate consulting that i'll do
you need like a strong bitta or a strong
guffa is a ceo
so if you've got a ceo that's vata you
need to balance it
with a coo that's either bitter or kaffa
okay and then you may say like okay what
is avata
plus pitta so the vata is like the
inventor
hey i came up with this cool blockchain
cool
the pit the vata pitta hybrid is
actually the entrepreneur
so if you think about it like what's the
difference between an innovator
and an entrepreneur right so like the
the entrepreneur is someone who has the
innovation capability
but also the ability to organize it so
like then you can actually like
start a company right because you've got
that
certain amount of ambition you've got
that drive you can sort of organize your
information
things like that whereas like you know
if you're a pure vata
what you what you've got is like you're
the guy who makes the discovery but you
can't
start the business and then if we've got
like you know
another kind of bitter so you also have
like people who will
so for example like the dod kind of does
this right where
the dod will go around and find
inventors
and what they'll do is like they'll take
the invention and then they'll like
turn it into a thing right so you'll
have people who will go out and like
purchase patents they're not the patent
developer
right so this is also like another kind
of entrepreneur but it's sort of like a
you know let's call this the patent
purchaser
so what they're gonna do is come to
people with inventions and we'll help
you bring your invention to market
i'm good at the ambition i'm good at
like you know all this stuff
i'm gonna kind of bring it to market
which is a little bit different because
we're not quite
innovating and the entrepreneur sort of
does like both of those pieces right if
you really look at successful
entrepreneurs they usually
you know do both of the pieces or they
find teams
where they can they can supplement like
their weak points
okay so now let's get to some other kind
of interesting things so like
um so let's look at
pitta kapha
okay so the pitta kapha is sort of like
an analyst
so what we're gonna do is like look at
this organizing
information and we're gonna kind of like
develop a structure based on it
so like bitter kaphas are like really
really good at analyzing data
um so they're good at sort of like you
know piecing things together and working
well within structure
um the other kind of oh actually sorry
sorry this is wrong
this is actually a kapha pitta so
remember that you can have a primary and
a secondary
okay and then a bit the kapha so this is
the other point to illustrate
so is a kapha pitta the same as a bitter
kapha and i'd say no
so a pitta kapha is a good strategic
planner
so if you ask yourself like what's the
difference between like an analyst and a
strategic planner all right so pithas
are going to kind of organize
information and then sort of develop a
strategy going forward
they're not just about creating
structure for the sake of structure
they're sort of like
you know like kind of forward thinking
and they're really good at sort of like
creating a structure that we can build
towards
uh kaffa pitta may be a little bit
better in analysis they're not so
concerned about forward thinking they're
really thinking about okay
how can we look at what we have that
exists and sort of like analyze it and
sort of like iterate or improve on it
and i know it's it it sort of sounds
kind of like this may be overlapping and
this is why we really are getting kind
of away from science
but this is just sort of observationally
like what i've seen
okay and now we're going to get to the
combo that people are talking about so
like what about
a kapha vata so i think kaphavatas excel
at something like program development
so what does this mean so if you look at
program development we're going to make
something new it requires some degree of
innovation
but if you want to develop a program it
requires a certain amount of structure
right like you want the innovation
but you really need some kind of
structure around it so
it's kind of interesting but even if you
look at like the ayurvedic dosha of like
the people who
you know wind up in different piece
places within healthy gamer
like our strongest program developers
are like program development people
actually have a healthy dose of vata and
kapha
and so it's really fascinating but when
i go to a corporation you kind of think
about okay what do you need for program
development
you don't necessarily need ambition what
you need is like you're creating
something new so you need
like this innovative kind of component
but you also need like a structural
component so i'm actually like
good at some aspects of program
development and i suck in other aspects
so i'm really good at sketching out
ideas and coming up with the innovations
but i'm very bad at creating the
policies and procedures
that are based on the innovation so a
really strong kapha vata
is awesome because they can sort of
innovate a little bit but they can also
create like the policies and procedures
around that program when it's new and if
you look at something like a more kapha
pitta
the kapha pitta will be a lot stronger
maybe not quite
developing them but once we have them
analyze them to kind of see what's
working and how to improve
okay so now what i'm going to do
is is kind of like just touch on you
know a couple of other combinations
and sort of help you all sort of
understand like
what kind of thought processes or
approaches they have okay
so let's look at vata pettas so
like kind of a spectrum okay so let's
look at the vata the vata says
let's try it out let's see what happens
okay this is going to be kind of like
you know now we're getting into the what
harry potter type are you what pokemon
are you okay
and then the bit that says let's try it
out
and measure it
okay like let's like organize let's not
just see what happens
and rely on intuition
let's use analysis
do you guys get the difference like some
people like i'm like this where
you know so we're thinking about how to
improve particular things in healthy
gamer
because it's an ongoing process where
we're trying to get better at stuff and
so my approach is like
i'm just going to go and like watch
other coaches
for example and that and i'll rely on my
intuition to tell me like what these
people need to do differently
i'm not going to design a curriculum yet
i'm going to just go and like watch and
rely on my intuition
and vata pittas are like let go ahead
let's try it out but let's make sure we
measure it
okay and what about the pittavata
so what the pittavata says is let's
measure what we've got
and see what we should try
you guys see the difference here like
the difference between a vata pitta and
a pittavata
okay because there's a huge difference
like if you work with
human beings you will see that their
cognition literally the way their brain
works
is gonna fall into these buckets like
some people like i know it sounds weird
but like i'm pretty sure
that this is scientifically verifiable
okay
some people are more intuitive
like their approach to problem solving
is like
i'ma show up and i'ma figure it out
we'll figure it out we'll figure it out
and that
pisses some people off so much
what do you mean we're going to figure
out how are we going to figure it out
what methodology are you going to use to
figure it out what do you mean man we're
going to figure it out
you can't just show up and figure it out
what if you don't figure it out
it's infuriating for them other people
are like a little bit more about like
analysis and measurement right
cool let's give it a shot but let's be
structured
in the way that we're gonna give it a
shot
right that's totally fine like let's try
white water rafting let's do a little
bit of research ahead of time and figure
out let's do one day of class one rapids
one day of class two rapids and one day
of class three rapids
and the vata is just going to show up
and he's like hey i'm here to white
water raft
let's go and then the bitter vata will
be like okay
let me read about let me read about
class one rapids class two rapids and
class
three rapids okay so it seems like class
one you can do if you're nine and older
and we're all adults
so actually why don't we try class two
first
and if we like class 2 or if it feels
too easy for us then we'll try class
3. you know it's kind of interesting but
like i know it sounds weird but
different humans default
to these different patterns this is an
observation that i am like 99 sure
if you tested and measured and i'm
pretty sure it has been in some way
so there's some like um research on
carnation for example which sort of like
verifies some of this stuff um that you
will discover that different humans
approach problems in different ways and
like you can just observe that in your
own life right like
you may just be like a hey let's just
see what happens kind of person
and like your partner is sort of like
let's organize
you know and and then people are going
to be kind of in the middle
so what what this sort of indicates is
that like when you
when you understand like what you are so
this is like what you know
different combinations of doshas look
like
so it's not just like innovation or
versus structure it's not like those are
you know mutually exclusive they're
actually like independent things so like
innovation plus structure
and then you kind of wind up with like
someone who's like a good program
developer
right so they can innovate but they're
going to create a lot of structure
around it
um so the next thing that we're going to
talk about
is remember we've got vata
right and then we've got the upper
threshold and the lower threshold
so remember that vata likes to innovate
so what happens if your vata is down
here
what happens if your pitta is down here
and what happens if your kapha is down
here
so there is a difference between having
low vata
and high kapha this is not the same
these are actually different things so
when we kind of when we simplify it what
we say
is that okay vat like wind and earth are
opposites
but the truth is that you can have a low
level of wind
or a high level of kapha and those may
appear to be the same
but they're not actually the same they
may overlap
but in in actuality the more you dig
into the details the more you'll see
their like nuanced perspectives here
so low vatas are
resistant to change right so you can say
oh
isn't that a guff of quality like yeah
sort of but you'll see kind of
differences right um so
uh lovatas are also tend to lack urgency
one of my favorites okay so like
they're not prone to panic easily
and then they also have um
[Music]
yeah so they lack urgency okay so then
you've got low kaphas
right so this person
and so low kaphas are going to
avoid procedures
and they're going to fight the system
right so this is a good example of like
so
i have some kapha
so the interesting thing is that i'm
willing to
jump in and innovate that's my
preference i don't want to develop a
structure ahead of time
but i'm not necessarily like resistant
to the system for the sake of being
resistant to the system
i will have some resistance to the
system but generally speaking like i
understand and see the value in systems
i think systems are fantastic i just
don't
care to develop them myself i'm like
that's great you guys build the system
i think the system is fantastic whereas
people who have very very low kapha will
be like
actively resistant to the system because
remember this is the threshold of
pathology right
so below this is when we start to see
negative
impacts so my cough is over here let's
say
and so it's like i still see the value
of a system i don't need to actively
fight against it
but when if my kapha gets drops kind of
a little bit too low then i'm going to
be like screw the system
the system sucks i don't want to use a
system i want to be free i want to be
uncaged
and that also you can say okay doesn't
that sound like very high vata in a
sense yes there's some overlap
but the more you get into the nuance
there's a difference between being high
vata and not
intuitively building a system
versus actively resisting the system
does that make sense and then let's talk
about lopez
so um
so lopez does have little attention to
detail
and tend to not resolve complexities
they tend to like keep things
disorganized
so now like you know now it's getting
kind of interesting right because like
i thought low vata was the opposite of i
mean uh high vota was the opposite of lo
kapha but
i'm super disorganized and isn't that
high vata
well it could be because you know
disorganization
much like you know vata kapha like
there's a there's a spectrum there right
and so lopita can actually have a
spectrum so this low bit that can have a
spectrum with high kapha
and a spectrum with high vata you guys
see that so it's not like
the two are actually opposite which is
sort of how i teach in a simplistic
sense
but the truth is that like the low level
of that thing manifests
in its own way right so like
and you may even say that you know low
people who have like
um very lopita have a pathologic
and you guys may know people like this
lack of
anger right so lope what the
bit does are not when we think about
someone who is a doormat
we may think okay if this person has a
high hp pool and they're a kapha
and they're like they're not gonna move
easily maybe they're a doormat
you may think okay kapha is like a
doormat is a cafe imbalance
but being a doormat could be having a
very low pitta
so like you just have a pathologically
low level of anger
and so you let people push you around
because you you're like not ambitious
right you're you're you have you lack
you have too little ambition
so you don't advocate for yourself you
don't fight for the promotion
and there could be cases of like lopet
then high guff in which case the problem
is exacerbated
um but you could also have you know
situations where like their kapha is
okay and like they're they're bitters
they're not like you know their cuff is
actually within balance and then they're
really the pathology is lopita okay
so this is sort of a more nuanced
perspective
and what you really find is that you
know human beings if you look at our
genetics right
the genetics behind vata pita and kapha
are very complicated so it's not like
there's one vata gene one bit the gene
and one coffee gene there are thousands
of different or tens of thousands or i
don't even know
really how many locations are but there
are tons and tons of locations
genes and there are different alleles
that may represent different levels of
vata
than kapha and so it's a whole symphony
of genetic stuff that creates an
individual balance
and in order to try to understand that
from a heuristic perspective which goes
back to
creating the framework there is no such
thing as vata pitta and kapha it just
correlates with your genes so this is a
simplified way of creating a framework
for introspection
but it does appear to correlate with
your actual genes
so now let's get to how do you determine
what you are
okay so if i've left somebody all in the
dust i apologize but
sorry this is like you really have to
understand the basics
um so
an ayurvedic physician does not take a
quiz
right that's not how they determine bush
an ayurvedic physician will do an
actual like complete body and mind
analysis
of a person so for example they will
look at your tongue
and people who are vata dominant have a
particular pattern of crap on their
tongue
bit the dominant will have a different
pattern of crap and guff
dominant will have a different pattern
of crap bittes
vatas tend to have crooked teeth pithas
tend to have back teeth that are yellow
kaphas tend to have like pretty
organized and straight teeth
they will look at your hair right so
like pittas will have a receding
hairline
and be prone to baldness vatas may have
a full head of hair but their hair will
be kinky and wavy
guffas will have sort of like smooth
straight luxurious hair
they'll also look at your mental
temperament so under stress do you
respond
when you're stressed out do you get
anxious do you get angry do you get
depressed
that's a component as well they'll also
look at things like your stools because
the digestions of people are different
vatas tend to be prone to hard stool and
complicate
uh constipation guffas will lay out
really solid logs that can be like kind
of a little bit
on the wetter side but this can have
kind of like watery stools mucousy
stools things like that
so it's kind of interesting like there's
all kinds of different correlations
right and if you think about what the
ayurvedic physicians were doing
and it sort of makes sense right because
your genes are going to affect a lot of
different processes
so you have like a gene that's active in
the mitochondria
and so if it affects your mitochondrial
function
the result of that mitochondria in a
gastrointestinal cell
will create one effect in a lung cell
will create a different effect
and in your brain will create a third
effect and your skin will create a
fourth effect
which is how we get to the fact that
like they correlate
vata with skin stool
right because this remember that there's
this is a genetic basis so it's not
organ system dependent our our system of
science
in the west is very organ system
dependent we think about the liver as
being completely separate from the heart
but if you go on a deeper level and you
look at the genetic level
there may be some kind of metabolic
effects which are
at the cellular or genetic level which
will manifest
in different ways depending on which
organ you're looking at and that's
literally what ayurvedic physicians do
it's fascinating okay
so how do you determine your dosha a
real ayurvedic physician will look at
all of these things
but one of the key things that they do
which works really well is pulse
diagnosis
so we're going to teach you this today
okay
so what they'll do is look at your pulse
and your pulse has a lot more
than rate and rhythm to it according to
the ayurvedic physicians
what they claim is that you can actually
make
correlations between your pulse and your
dosha
so i know it sounds kind of weird but
we're going to teach all this today so
like
this is what i want you to do i want you
to take your left hand
and i want you to take three fingers so
in ayurveda they say that
the pulse should be checked in men on
the right wrist
and in women on the left wrist i don't
really know why
but we're gonna i'm gonna just teach you
guys right wrist i don't know what
happens if you're transgender
i don't know um so we're going to take
three fingers
okay so you have your index finger
your middle finger and your ring finger
and what we're gonna do
is place it on the radial
artery which is right here okay so what
you're gonna find i don't
like this is like you're gonna be able
to feel your like you guys know how you
check your pulse right here
right you feel over here
okay and you should be able to check
your pulse so the first thing that we're
going to do and this is going to be our
meditation for the day okay
is i want you guys to be able to feel
your pulse at your radial artery with a
single finger or right hand facing up
okay so
feel around a little bit so what you'll
feel is there's a bone right here
let me see if i can there's a bone right
here and right to the left
i mean sorry yeah to the left of the
bone
on your right hand is going to be where
you can feel the pulse
yeah move a little bit more proximal so
move towards the elbow
okay
full screen the bone okay
let's see if we can find you guys
okay
so here's your radial artery here's the
radius
and the bone that you're going to feel
is probably the
head of the radius which is right here
so this
bump is what you're going to feel is the
bone and the the radial artery is right
next to it
okay let me see if i can find another
here we go
oh jesus okay
so here's the
conventional radial artery i suppose
right so it's like right here so it's
kind of like below your thenar eminence
so this fat part of your thumb
i've it's been a while guys i'm a
psychiatrist so i don't do a whole lot
of anatomy
but if you know medical school 11 years
ago
rusty then our eminence and if you kind
of go
beneath the thenar eminence right on the
left side
like at the end of the thenar eminence
so if you look at my hand
like right here like below this is the
radial artery you guys see
like this is my thenar eminence
and then you kind of go below it okay
i know chat listen i didn't say today
was gonna be easy
okay or this is for advanced people
okay so what we're gonna do is and
once you find the the
the radial artery then what we're gonna
do is we're gonna take three fingers and
we're going to put them kind of next to
each other
and then what i want you guys to do is
press on your radial artery so that you
can feel
all three so you can feel the pulse
under all three fingers
and what you're going to need to do is
probably press a little bit harder on
this finger
sorry like harder on this finger like a
little harder on the middle finger and
then this finger can be quite light
so you're actually going to press down
like this
so the least pressure over here a little
bit more pressure over here
and the most pressure over here okay
and then what i want you to do is pay
attention
to the feeling of your pulse
and what you'll see is that it's not
uniform
across all three
okay don't need to apply lube
don't press too hard just press press
just enough to feel it
okay and what you'll discover
i'll show you guys in a second what
you'll discover
is
that the pulse is not uniform so one
person
may have a pulse like this
one person may have a pulse like this
and so actually when people were teach
pulse diagnosis
what they equate it to is animal gait
so there's a rabbit pulse there's an
ox pulse there is a goat pulse
there's a deer pulse there's a horse
pulse
and what they're essentially doing is
finding these different patterns
of pulsation right so or your pulse
could be like this
and so what i want you all to do for a
few seconds is just close your eyes
and see snake pulse is actually one of
them
and see if you can feel the pulse
right and this is where you may say oh
okay but like it feels the strongest
with my ring finger
and so if you press down a little bit
that's why we're going to alter the
pressure
and the pressure really shouldn't affect
the pulse i know it sounds bizarre
um just like other bizarre things did
you know that
how hard you breathe out how forcefully
you exhale does not
affect the length of your exhalation
it's crazy
um you exhale the same the same distance
every breath
no matter how hard you breathe a lot of
weird things about the body that the
yogis discovered
so just close your eyes and feel the
pulse right feel where you feel it
and you may also notice that not every
beat is the same
okay
so the um i'm not sure if this is
actually correct but
i'm using my ring finger on top like
closest to the edge of my hand so the
ring finger is closest to the thenar
eminence in your palm
so it goes so
okay yeah
so this is how i'm doing it this is the
ring finger right and this is
the hand so you can also do i mean you
could do it like this but i'm i'm doing
it like this
it's hard to show oh my god how can i
show this
there we go if that can see that that's
how i'm doing it
okay
so
you know it's kind of weird i i get it's
a weird experience
so in terms of the meditation technique
here's
how we can sort of use it as a dot or
not right so
we don't know i mean i i'm not qualified
i don't know pulse diagnosis
so i've i've met some ayurvedic
physicians for example that can diagnose
pregnancy
impulse diagnosis it is wild
um and and so it's it's it's bizarre
like they can accurately diagnose
pregnancy through pulse diagnosis which
sounds unbelievable
um but uh
you know i don't know pulse diagnosis
um but i i do think that it can be a
useful kind of like meditation right so
it's
hard enough so like remember that the
goals of a toddler are to bring your
attention to the present
and sort of to be able to detect subtle
things so you may notice that you know
in order to really feel the pulse you
have to find the right balance your
your fingers have to push just as much
as you want them to to feel it
and that um uh you also
need to concentrate right like if your
mind is distracted you're not going to
be able to feel the subtle nuances
um
yeah so how how do we diagnose sardosha
so essentially these different patterns
will result in different doshas so i
forget exactly what it is but i think
maybe
the um the vata pulse
is closest to the so if you have the the
strongest spike
is near the wrist your dominant if it's
in the middle your bit the dominant and
if it's
deeper in your cuff if it's closest to
your shoulder it's kapha dominant it
could be wrong it's one one way or the
other
but i think that's just a very simple
thing i i think the real people who
understand pulse diagnosis will look at
that pattern
and based on the pattern of the three
things they'll determine your dosha
now the tricky thing there is that if
you look at it anatomically
the radial artery is the most
superficial closest to the palm which
means that just like
based on anatomy you're gonna everyone
is gonna feel
the strongest pulse in uh closest to the
palm
so everyone will diagnose themselves as
vata but and that's why you have to
learn how to press
with more force to balance
the depth of the tissue
right so yeah
and that's pulse diagnosis so the the
question of okay how do i determine
my dorsha we can give you questionnaires
like so
to my knowledge no questionnaire has
actually been like scientifically
validated
in a very rigorous way
um you know actual physicians will use
different kinds of like features and
they'll sort of be able to tell
so i'm like pretty decent at diagnosing
people as like mata pete and kaffa
um but you know my system has to do a
lot with like bone structure
the prominence of veins on the back of
your hand
also will determine your dosha
so like all of those factors then you'll
kind of see okay this person is like six
predominantly vata predominantly fit the
predominantly kapha
and i do believe that in our lifetime we
will have
hopefully personalized genetic tests
which will tell you what your dosha is
right so things
so it's hard to see but
so like if you look at the veins i guess
it's hard to see this way but
um or actually just look at look at the
my tendons you guys see how my tendons
are very visible when i flex my hand
like my hand is like thin so like you
can see the tendons like popping out
right like this so that's like it's a
very vata hand
because there's not like flesh or tissue
over it
those are tendons but it's hard to see
on camera with the veins
oh man i wish i could hear let me just
shoot this
so hard to see you guys see that
that's about the hand
it's hard because i have to hold up my
hand
and then when i hold it up the veins
start to
sink in a little bit right so like
you'll have like
thickness of different people's like
hands like some people like you won't
they won't stick out
right and so if we think about it um
so so it's complicated because remember
that the whole point so once you
once we recognize that ayurveda
correlates with your genetics your genes
are in
every cell and therefore your your dosha
will manifest in each part of your body
or your being right and so depending on
which
alleles are at which locations that's
what will manifest in a particular
like cell so even my mind is
predominantly vata
but i absolutely have some degree of
pitta and
emotionally i'm very kapha so it's
interesting because like emotionally
like i don't get
upset easily i thought that was due to
my yogic training
but i recently spoke with an ayurvedic
colleague from mind and she's like no
you're actually like it's not your
it's not the yogic training you're just
emotionally cough i was like damn
that's interesting so it's interesting
right because each of these dimensions
each aspect of your body your teeth your
bone structure
your hair your eyes um so even like the
amount
of eyelid over the iris of your eye
effect is correlated with your dosha
your stool
your your digestion your hunger all of
that stuff correlates with ayurveda
so we've got a time for a couple things
so we can do
two options one is i can teach all a
little bit about conflict
between different doshas um
and or what we can do is uh
oh so another just simple example or
what we can do is just answer questions
and i'm leaning towards
answering questions um
what did i want to say i wanted to say
something oh yeah and the other thing is
metabolism oh my god metabolism is so
clearly there are three buckets of
people right so like
if you guys have heard the terms um
ectomorph endomorph and mesomorph these
like this is people have noticed that
there are big boned people
and people with fast metabolisms and you
can feed both people the same stuff
and they like one will not gain weight
and one will gain weight
right so this is something that we've
like observed in like there's been
science
scientific exploration of the three
metabolic types which is like
yeah i've just been saying that for
thousands of years
okay okay let's do questions
okay what questions let me see actually
real quick um
what about vatakapha
okay
so people with high metabolisms are vata
is generally speaking yes
so remember when we say arvatas
any one part of your body does not
determine your dosha right like so the
doshik determinant
is based on all the aspects of your body
so you may have
avata metabolism but may have like a
kapha mind
or like you know bit the veins
so the way that we determine is that
like you know the more
the greater percentage of your genes
that are vata
the higher number of vata features
you'll have
does that make sense
uh you missed scafavata what do you mean
i missed scuff i thought we talked about
program development
so like that's a good example of um
what okay so if you guys want to
understand of vata kapha so remember
that there
are different dimensions of it okay so
like
um you know your metabolism or bone
structure so i've seen this a lot where
you'll have
kapha body types with vata mines so like
you can be
big boned and have really really bad
adhd
right it's not like everyone who's big
boned has depression
you can have really bad anxiety and and
be big boat
um so there's absolutely like vata kapha
hybrids uh i even said myself like so
emotionally i'm very kapha where like
it's hard to get me
to be really upset so i tend to be like
pretty tranquil in that way
but i my mind is all over the place um
in terms of what's the counterpart
to the dev
oh oh what's oh i see so so the the
kapha vata
is a program developer and let me think
about avatar
um
so i'd say like a vata kapha is like
an innovator who also like uses a lot of
structure
so not necessarily organizing but like a
avatar kapha maybe someone who is very
structured
in the way that they innovate for
example
right so even if you look at researchers
so there are different kinds of
researchers right there are researchers
who will
form hypotheses based on intuition
and there were researchers who will form
hypotheses based on data
so i'll go to an academic medical center
and talk to a research lab
and you know we'll see like vata kapha
conflicts within the lab
even though everyone's a researcher
so i i think that like you know the vata
kapha which one did i talk about yeah so
coffee vata will be like a program
developer
and like avata kaffa will be someone
who's like structurally focused or even
like
tools or methodology focused but still
be like innovating
so they may be all about so even like
this
you know so i think if you wanted to
develop a system of ayurvedic
personality analysis
i think avatar kapha would be a really
good person for it
right because they're they're going to
be thinking a little bit about how do i
create this structure
for systematically assessing
a relatively new concept
does that help do animals have doshas
yes
so this is the other interesting thing
ayurvedic physicians are veterinarians
there's no difference
it's neat
they'll prescribe medicine to pet snakes
they'll treat cows for illness
no difference they're trained in it i
don't know about nowadays but
historically
like if you go to like indian villages
right and there's like a village doctor
they will treat your goat and they will
treat your child
if you kind of think about it right like
i mean like i was thinking about doing a
little bit of veterinary
medicine you know doing a little pet
therapy we prescribe ssris apparently to
like dogs with anxiety now
right part of my therapy practice is
cats
they show up for their hourly
appointment once a week
you know i sit down they lay down on the
freudian couch we do a little bit of
psychoanalysis
they feel better about themselves it's
great
pet therapy is a thing chat as is pet
antidepressant and anti-anxiety
medication
so probably within our lifetime we'll
also see veterinary psychiatrists
right because you can actually diet you
can diagnose there
are dogs who are on ssris
because if you think about it you know
what's really like so if you know
if i if a dog has a staph infection and
i have a staph infection antibiotics is
both of it like we know that dogs get
cancer right like we know that dogs get
heart disease
it's interesting yeah someone's like my
mom's dog takes prosthetics yeah it
blows my mind but
ah what about people who have the same
amount of each dosha
so there are that's a great great
question so this is where
once again not really scientifically
based now okay but more from corporate
consulting
you all may notice that there are people
in your social circles or group projects
or whatever who are essentially like
mediators and they'll kind of like tap
into whatever is deficient so
you know like like the the three doshik
person
is the bard from d and d they do a
little bit of everything
they're not the best caster they're not
the best warrior they've got a couple of
thief skills
and i think even in 5 5e they can even
cast a little bit right they've got some
like divine spells and some like
arcane spells so like there are people
like that
like in your social circles there will
be like you know the one person who
organizes your parties
and when that person isn't around
someone steps up there's the one person
who's sort of like the sympathetic
listener and good friend and when
they're
when that not when they're not around
this other person steps up they're sort
of the druids
from wow right like i've got cat druid
i've got bear form i've got healing
druid and i've got moonkin
i can change shape and sort of tap into
whatever role is necessary
and and some people may think well isn't
that what you want and the answer is
like not really because if you get
you know a bunch of druids you're not
going to get like if you have a party
full of bards
like it's not necessarily more effective
or even as
effective as like a party where you've
got like a fighter a wizard a cleric and
a rogue
right sometimes you want specialization
and sometimes you want
the glue that gets all the pieces to
stick together
right so when someone's saying no dps no
like bards can do some dps
right so try dorsi people can do
everything to a decent degree
but you know i don't know that they'll
be like
brilliant you know in innovators
or develop the best structure they kind
of supplement they're kind of hybrid
classes
yeah jack of all trades master of none
is the tradoship person
so the the reason that i call them
mediators the the real benefit
of of um tridoshik people
is not so much in the highs it's
actually in the absence of lows that's
what makes them so good on a team
they're like you know the lubricant for
the team
because the tridoshik people are not
resistant
to change they're not resistant to
structure and they're not resistant to
like
organization so like they don't get into
trouble with anyone
i mean they can still be you know like
mean and stuff
but they don't have like the the
workplace kind of conflicts
where so like we have this all the time
we're like you know i'm vata so one of
the biggest
challenges here at hg is like i will
have an idea
and i will say like hey chat let's do
this and then everyone's like oh my god
now we actually have to make that happen
and there's a whole team that's like you
can't go around
just promising things to chat because we
have to make that happen
um and so you know there are advantages
and disadvantages of each one and a lot
of our conflict and a lot of our
conflict resolution
has been figuring out like how i can
work with the more bit the people and
how i can work with the more kapha
people
which i absolutely need because you all
may know this but if you have a party
full of vatas it's like
everyone's got brilliant ideas and
nothing ever gets done
is laziness tied to dorsa not really
so this is where you know there's
another concept which we haven't really
explained which is
gunas
um so i think we're gonna actually talk
a little bit about this maybe on monday
uh but we're gonna give you guys a
slightly different perspective on
motivation
so we think about laziness as a trait
right it's an aspect of your personality
so like a person is lazy we don't think
about laziness
as a fluctuating state in our conception
but in in reality it absolutely is
right there are some days that you're
more lazy than other days
and so what that actually comes down to
the best explanation of the
state of laziness which i think western
science is very poor at like we don't
like you know we think about laziness
in terms of things like five factor
model where it's like high
conscientiousness or low
conscientiousness
it's an aspect of your personality
whereas like all you have to do to be
less lazy or more lazy is change your
diet you all know this like if i eat
six slices of pizza and have a couple
beers what happens to my motivation
right whereas if i'm like eating food
that's healthy if i start to exercise
things like that
i'm gonna feel more motivated and that
has to do with a concept in
in kind of eastern thinking called the
gunas so there are three gunas there's a
sattvas rajas and tamas sattvas is the
quality that makes us
balanced and clean rajas is the quality
that makes
us active and passionate and tamas is
the
quality that makes us dull and inert
and our society is overwhelmingly has
thompsic influences
and vata influences so as a society
we are over where our vata is elevated
and our thomas is elevated so we tend to
be like
a little bit like it's hard for us to do
stuff
and if we look at things like twitter
the primary twitter is very rajsic
so like twitter like gets people riled
up right it doesn't make people
calm it gets people like kind of riled
up
and so in the ayurvedic treatment of
depression part of that is if you've got
a thumb sick disturbance you actually
want to
engage rajas first so you want to bring
out people's activity and passion
and once you have a nice balance between
inertia and passion
then you can become calm
so anyway we'll talk more about this on
monday
last questions
will there be a stream on more spiritual
stuff like karma absolutely
so this is the challenge that we have i
don't know what y'all thought about this
i guess
okay so not that low but so here's the
challenge with stream is i can teach
this advanced stuff about ayurveda and
like i don't know
what percentage of people will be left
behind
so the real challenge on stream is that
people come in and out
and that a lot of people may not have
the sufficient prereqs
this is why it is hard to teach advanced
or newest nuanced concepts on stream
so this is why we like do things like
interviews and q a because we all start
in the same place like
when someone shows up on stream i have
no idea what they're going to talk about
and so we're all starting together which
makes it a good experience for everyone
involved
in terms of q a we're also starting
together right
we all see the question and i'm gonna
answer it so we're all in the same place
um when it comes to advanced concepts
what we're doing so i'd say like you
know did you understand this if you guys
watch
stream on wednesday did you understand
i guess that more people would be
you know in the yes column um
and yeah so people come in later are
screwed right so
that's that's where if we think about
advantages and disadvantages of stream
stream is a very like vata oriented
platform right it's live it's dynamic
there's interaction chat is spamming you
during streaming
people are coming in people are going
out it's very different from a lecture
that has a start time
and so like there are some kinds of
teaching which work better in vata
environments
right like socratic teaching works
really well i can ask you all questions
you can ask me questions
it's live it's organic it's it's fun and
then
that's why we made dr k's guide because
it's not ideal for everything so
if you guys want to learn about mantra
and spirituality and stuff like that you
have to start at the
the basics what is the nature of the
universe because unless you understand
the nature of the universe
how a mantra works is is going to be
like you're going to be missing
something right
um if you want to understand karma like
okay what is like what are the
assumptions of like the meditative world
view like how does
how do the yogis view the world and then
you can understand karma
if you want to understand things like
spiritual experience
like you have to understand like okay
what is a spiritual experience it
depends on what a person is
what the what the world is what the
universe is then you can understand the
spiritual experience in the right
context
um so i think that's kind of the
challenge so i think for a lot of these
questions and
this is what we try to do so you know we
made a guide because it's start to
finish
it's a ton of start to finish
information about ayurveda
uh the challenge on stream is we've been
talking for two hours and i haven't
given anyone a solution yet because it's
like hard to do every like i can't do
everything on stream
and the problem with doing everything on
stream you're like yeah but like you can
but not really because
if someone's coming into stream now and
i start giving solutions and they
haven't heard the first two hours
they're going to have even no idea what
we're talking about
so the effective way to um
you know teach like sort of depends like
we want to use stream for particular
things
dr k's guide is like it's going to we're
going to explain what ayurveda is
kind of like we did today but we also
don't want to restrict that information
to dr k's guide right so we
taught advanced concepts of ayurveda so
like there are things that we taught
today that aren't in dr k's guide
so i encourage you all to you know like
check out the guy like look at the intro
to ayurveda
we also have a lot of dietary guidance
and things like that where we'll tell
you
okay dr k great i am avata kapha and i'm
out of balance what do i do about it
that's going to be in dr k's guide
and if you buy dr k's guide and you kind
of check it out and then you're kind of
wondering like okay what how can i
understand like
these dorsi balances like come back and
and watch this youtube video
uh the tentative drop date is august
18th
someone's been asking what do i think
about homeopathy so
i think homeopathy has less biological
plausibility
than ayurveda uh there's a reason why i
chose to study ayurveda instead of
homeopathy
the clinical evidence is like mixed um
i i i don't put a whole lot of stock
into it
it's kind of bizarre but there is some
clinical evidence behind it but the
the scientific plausibility is just
really makes no sense
which doesn't mean that it isn't true it
could mean that we don't really
understand
as much right so for thousands of years
or like not thousands of years but
you know 60 years ago medical
professionals did not
understand the mechanism they didn't see
a way in which meditation could be used
as a treatment for depression
they didn't understand i don't
understand like you have to talk to
people's feelings to make them feel
better
i don't understand how sitting down and
chanting om for 30 minutes
is going to help someone's depression
there's no like psychology freud would
have been confused right because he's
like
where's the edible complex where's the
oral phase where's the anal phase
where's the phallic phase
it's an understanding of these things
and dealing with these issues that helps
you treat depression
how on earth could sitting there
enchanting something for 30 minutes
treat depression so just because science
does not
understand something does not mean it is
not real
um it just means that we don't
understand it which is something that
scientists tend to forget a lot right so
there's like a camp of people who say
that
there once something becomes verified it
becomes medicine and therefore
medicine is defined as what works
and if it is not medicine then it is
alternative medicine and alternative
medicine doesn't work
once you study something you once you
study alternative medicine and you
verify that it works
it becomes medicine therefore medicine
is defined by what works so this is
a common argument for people who are
like kind of anti-alternative medicine
right
they're like medicine is what works and
so my question is if we go back a
hundred years
and people were meditating for
depression is it a part of medicine
or not because we have no scientific
evidence that it works
so then it's not a part of medicine
right and then the question becomes
if it's not a part of medicine did
meditation help people with depression
100 years ago
the answer to that question is yes which
then means that
alternative medicine works so like the
whole argument kind of falls apart
so this is where we kind of when we go
back to homeopathy like i don't see a
whole lot of biological plausibility
i don't think that the treatments the
evidence that i've seen for homeopathy
is not as strong as it is for ayurveda
like for example
you know ashwagandha is an ayurvedic
herb that has been shown to
um you know clear beta amyloid which is
one of the things that causes
dementia from the brain and like
ayurvedic folks have been using
ashwagandha for like neurological health
and psychological health for
thousands of years and so we have like
scientific verification of their methods
whereas the problem with homeopathy for
those of you who don't know is they like
do serial dilutions
so what they do is like they'll i'm
gonna take like you know a drop of
ashwagandha and put it in a hundred
drops of water
and shake it around so dilute the
ashwagandha
to be like one part in a hundred and
then i'm going to take one drop of that
solution
and put it in another vial of water so
then it's going to be like
1 in 10 000 and then i'm going to take
one drop of that dilute solution
and i'm going to put it in another
solution and then it's going to be like
one part per million of the biological
compound and then they administer that
as medicine
and claim that there's a therapeutic
benefit so there are some trials that
show that homeopathic remedies are
effective like i've seen
you know homeopathic remedies for you
know like
um you know i reviewed a paper about
homeopathic remedies for
uh benign
prostate hyper hyperplasia
bph and it seemed like their stuff
was effective like people saw a
reduction in symptoms and it seemed like
it worked
it's just i don't understand the
biological plausibility so i think the
evidence is not as strong
i don't think that the biological
plausibility is really there
so you know
any tips for pitta kaphas yeah so when
it comes to tips so this is where
there's like a whole other section right
so like the next phase of this is like
conflict resolution and like tips and
understanding your dosha and stuff like
that so for pitta kaphas
you know the the biggest gap that you
have is in terms of like
innovation and being dynamic right so
the conflict that you're gonna have is
with people who are more dynamic than
you are
who like wanna d so like the the
strategic plan or the pitta
okay i'm going to look at the data i'm
going to organize it when i come up with
a plan we're going to stick to the plan
so the biggest problem that betha's run
into
is that once they've gone through their
process it's really hard to get them to
change
and sometimes they can become too
attached to their ideas
right like once we've got a plan like
don't disturb it
even if it's bad and the vata is over
there saying bro this isn't working
bro this isn't working bro this isn't
working we see this in corporations
all the time okay so like we see this
with
um like i think a lot of these
catastrophic failures with
corporations are like
classic examples of like bitter kaffa's
gone wild so what you'll have is like
you'll have a corporation that goes
through a lot of investment
to come up with a plan like we're gonna
launch
coke 2.0 and then like each step of the
way
there are people who are like or
actually you know maybe like cyberpunk
is another good example
so like i i don't actually know because
i don't know the inside of
uh you know cd projekt red but like
sometimes you'll have these catastrophic
launches right
and then everyone's scratching there
sitting there and like asking themselves
how could this company that does such a
good job
launch such a catastrophic
create such a catastrophic mess and what
happens
is that all along the way you've got
the bit the kapha energy which is like
here's our strategy
we did a good job we did our due
diligence we hired consultants
they said it was going to be okay let's
move forward
and then as they move down the process
there are vata people in the company who
are like
hey i think we need to change things hey
i think we need to change things
hey like the data that we're getting is
actually not great
hey this is not going well
but the energy of the company is pitaka
so like this is the plan we strategized
it we're sticking to it
these are the naysayers this person is
in align with our vision
this person isn't going to get promoted
right because they're like all these
promotion kind of things where like even
if you know that something's wrong you
can't be
like it's like absolutely kill the
messenger
so you no one wants to be the messenger
and some guy at the top is like
this is my vision it's gonna increase
profits 20 percent
and the board is like do it
and then what happens is they go back
and they tell their their employees
they're like
institute my vision and everyone's like
yes
and then they ask how are things going
and then the manager
goes to the associate and he's like hey
don't tell anyone that everything is a
[ __ ] mess it'll disrupt the plan
people won't like it
kill the messenger so we're just gonna
say
everything's okay and then
there were a thousand things in
hindsight that went wrong and the ceo at
the top is like this is going to be
great because everyone's thinking
telling me it's going to be great
catastrophic failure
and then the ceo is like how could this
happen how could y'all let this happen
i was told everything was okay i was
told everything was going to be great
and it's because there's no room for
that vata energy with strategic planning
gone
that strategic planning gone wild
right so the tip is to be aware that
you can invest a lot into your strategic
plan
and listen to people that piss you off
when they say hey maybe this is not a
great idea
that is the tip for pithakafas listen to
people who piss you off
okay
so someone's asking why do vatas have a
tendency to make jokes all the time or
is it just me so there are multiple
layers of this question
right so we can take a western
psychology process
i love this question it's such a great
question we can take a western
psychology perspective and we can say
you make jokes because it's a defensive
mechanism you have difficulty tolerating
internal negative emotion so we're gonna
lighten the mood and you can't sit with
tension
so we're gonna make a joke is a defense
mechanism the defense mechanism can be
personal in your head
or it can even be a defense mechanism in
the group
right that's why we make jokes there's
an ayurvedic perspective
why do vatas make more jokes because
vata's minds are bouncing all over the
place so vatas tend to be witty
and even if you look at different
comedians right like you can see the
variance of doshas within different
comedians
some comedians are like have a very
clear vision of where they're starting
and where they're ending
and they make it seem casual but it's
very well crafted
some uh you know comedians are
very kapha right so they'll even be like
super like
structured um and which may sound a
little bit like bit the comedians but
then you'll have vata comedians who are
like
you know they're the ones like some
comedians will laugh
regularly at their own jokes before they
hit the punch line
they'll lose it on stage right so
there's a touch of the vata in terms of
like the
dynamicness and the wittiness the
audience participation
you know
so so dave chappelle
i can't comment on individual people so
i'm gonna steer clear of that
ah so when they say old dave chappelle
is vata like that's very
smart right because dave chappelle's his
comedy has changed it's evolved
right and then like like i think uh
mitch hedberg
has a very i'm not going to comment on
what he is but if you all know mitch
hedberg
he has a very vatakapha style of comedy
right like it's kind of like random ass
thoughts
but actually like really like chill and
structure
he's not really witty but it's like
really random
i don't know who my [ __ ] is can you
become more pita kaffa if you're vata
absolutely so remember that
you can lower your vata and you can
increase your pitta and kapha
through particular exercises and diets
oh god
gg get wrecked get wrecked dr k
oh [ __ ] oh man i did not i did not
expect that that's good
chat that's good
okay so last thing that we're gonna do
is our boy or girl i don't know what
the gender is our homie
tramrant one of the
greatest meme lords of the internet has
made another video
so now that we've owned dr k we can just
you guys can just you know
we can just stick with that theme okay
here we go i don't think it's like an
issue
i don't think it impairs your function i
don't think it's a problem
i'm perfect the problem's you okay
maybe so the first thing is
are you stupid i i wouldn't know
that makes you stupid is that a bad
thing everyone's like how can this
person be so stupid
oh wow i didn't realize things were that
bad okay
[ __ ] dumb oh my god can i just think
for a second and try to figure out how
to say this
what are you what are you thinking right
now i just uh i forgot
like that's what you can't even remember
what you were talking about now yeah
i forgot give me a second all you're
doing
is opening and closing your [ __ ] eyes
what do you mean by that
it's not going to alter wildly in the
span of 90 seconds whether you're doing
this
or doing this um so what can i do
what should i do what do you think
i mean yeah i don't even know what to
think about that i don't know either so
can i think for a second
yeah oh my god
this actually sounds like a conversation
like a real conversation
oh my god what was that ooh
that was epic oh my god i cannot okay
what do you struggle with
you are a yo no quiet youtube
okay yeah let's send you the link so i
don't know if you all know this but you
know we have
tons oh god am i lagging what is going
on
i can't post my chat is frozen
i need to update streamlabs man this
shit's getting buggy
okay let me just tell you guys what the
um maybe someone else can post it
trying to i can't type in chat
hold on there we go works
thank you um
yeah i'm just amazed
and i can't believe that
they can stitch together like because
it's not like 16
conversations it's just two
conversations that they're stitching
together it's brilliant
like you know we had uh i mean we just
have so many brilliant people in our
community it's amazing
truly amazing like this is hilarious um
i think it's you know i imagine it's
objectively funny it's not just because
it's me
but i think it's brilliant and we've got
like good artists
like people will post things on the
reddit about like you know art
you know they'll make pictures and stuff
and then we've got folks who are like
musicians like there's some i think
there's like a healthy gamer beat
healthy beats collective i think is what
they're called
and they have like a you know they made
an album and it's like i think i think
they maybe
hang out on discord or something i'm not
even sure exactly where they come from
that they've got an album on soundcloud
which is actually pretty dope
um and
it's great like we've got uh you know we
had someone post on
on um on a reddit who like compiled
resources for
students we had someone else post who's
a therapist who was kind of like talking
about
you know like analyzing what i do on
stream and stuff which was fantastic
they were sort of talking about what i
do well and like you know other kinds of
like you know i don't think they were
very critical but i think they had a lot
of good like feedback and
and helping people understand like some
of the luxuries that i have on stream
there's a lot of just super thoughtful
people out there um even the person who
you know made the post about the dosha
is not the pokemon type like
you know there's a lot of good stuff in
this community
and uh i think it's really fantastic
like one of my favorite things about
this work is the fact that it's like you
know there's there's space for other
people to shine
right and so i'd say like like tram ran
there's like comedy genius in there
you